It was nearing midnight and the Prime Minister was sitting alone in his
office, reading a long memo that was slipping through his brain without
 leaving the slightest trace of meaning behind. He was waiting for a call from
the President of a far distant country, and between wondering when the wretched
 man would telephone, and trying to suppress unpleasant memories of
what had been a very long, tiring, and difficult week, there was not much
space in his head for anything else. The more he attempted to focus on the
print on the page before him, the more clearly the Prime Minister could see
the gloating face of one of his political opponents. This particular opponent
had appeared on the news that very day, not only to enumerate all the terrible 
things that had happened in the last week (as though anyone needed
reminding) but also to explain why each and every one of them was the government’s
 fault.The Prime Minister’s pulse quickened at the very thought of these accusations,
  for they were neither fair nor true. How on earth was his government supposed to have 
  stopped that bridge collapsing? It was outrageous for anybody to suggest that they were
 not spending enough on bridges. The bridge was fewer than ten years old, and the best experts 
 were at a loss to explain why it had snapped cleanly in two, sending a dozen cars into the watery
depths of the river below. And how dare anyone suggest that it was lack of
policemen that had resulted in those two very nasty and well-publicized
murders? Or that the government should have somehow foreseen the freak
hurricane in the West Country that had caused so much damage to both people and property?
 And was it his fault that one of his Junior Ministers, Herbert Chorley, had chosen this week 
 to act so peculiarly that he was now going to be spending a lot more time with his family?
“A grim mood has gripped the country,” the opponent had concluded,
barely concealing his own broad grin.And unfortunately, this was perfectly true. The Prime Minister
 felt it himself; people really did seem more miserable than usual. Even the weather
was dismal; all this chilly mist in the middle of July... It wasn’t right, it
wasn’t normal...He turned over the second page of the memo, saw how much longer it
went on, and gave it up as a bad job. Stretching his arms above his head he
looked around his office mournfully. It was a handsome room, with a fine
marble fireplace facing the long sash windows, firmly closed against the
unseasonable chill. With a slight shiver, the Prime Minister got up and
moved over to the window, looking out at the thin mist that was pressing
itself against the glass. It was then, as he stood with his back to the room,
that he heard a soft cough behind him.
He froze, nose to nose with his own scared-looking reflection in the dark
glass. He knew that cough. He had heard it before. He turned very slowly
to face the empty room.
“Hello?” he said, trying to sound braver than he felt.
For a brief moment he allowed himself the impossible hope that nobody
would answer him. However, a voice responded at once, a crisp, decisive
voice that sounded as though it were reading a prepared statement. It was
coming — as the Prime Minister had known at the first cough — from the froglike little man
 wearing a long silver wig who was depicted in a small,
dirty oil painting in the far corner of the room.
“To the Prime Minister of Muggles. Urgent we meet. Kindly respond
immediately. Sincerely, Fudge.”
The man in the painting looked inquiringly at the Prime Minister.
“Er,” said the Prime Minister, “listen... It’s not a very good time for me...
I’m waiting for a telephone call, you see... from the President of —”
“That can be rearranged,” said the portrait at once. The Prime Minister’s
heart sank. He had been afraid of that.
“But I really was rather hoping to speak —”
“We shall arrange for the President to forget to call. He will telephone
tomorrow night instead,” said the little man. “Kindly respond immediately
to Mr. Fudge.”
“I... oh... very well,” said the Prime Minister weakly. “Yes, I’ll see
Fudge.”
He hurried back to his desk, straightening his tie as he went. He had barely
 resumed his seat, and arranged his face into what he hoped was a
relaxed and unfazed expression, when bright green flames burst into life in
the empty grate beneath his marble mantelpiece. He watched, trying not to
betray a flicker of surprise or alarm, as a portly man appeared within the
flames, spinning as fast as a top. Seconds later, he had climbed out onto a
rather fine antique rug, brushing ash from the sleeves of his long pin-striped
cloak, a lime-green bowler hat in his hand.
“Ah... Prime Minister,” said Cornelius Fudge, striding forward with his
hand outstretched. “Good to see you again.”
The Prime Minister could not honestly return this compliment, so said
nothing at all. He was not remotely pleased to see Fudge, whose occasional
appearances, apart from being downright alarming in themselves, generally
meant that he was about to hear some very bad news. Furthermore, Fudge
was looking distinctly careworn. He was thinner, balder, and grayer, and his
face had a crumpled look. The Prime Minister had seen that kind of look in
 politicians before, and it never boded well.
“How can I help you?” he said, shaking Fudge’s hand very briefly and
gesturing toward the hardest of the chairs in front of the desk.
“Difficult to know where to begin,” muttered Fudge, pulling up the chair,
sitting down, and placing his green bowler upon his knees. “What a week,
what a week...”
“Had a bad one too, have you?” asked the Prime Minister stiffly, hoping
to convey by this that he had quite enough on his plate already without any
extra helpings from Fudge.
“Yes, of course,” said Fudge, rubbing his eyes wearily and looking
morosely at the Prime Minister. “I’ve been having the same week you have,
Prime Minister. The Brockdale Bridge... the Bones and Vance murders...
not to mention the ruckus in the West Country...”
“You — er — your — I mean to say, some of your people were — were
involved in those — those things, were they?”
Fudge fixed the Prime Minister with a rather stern look. “Of course they
were,” he said. “Surely you’ve realized what’s going on?”
“I...” hesitated the Prime Minister.
It was precisely this sort of behavior that made him dislike Fudge’s visits
so much. He was, after all, the Prime Minister and did not appreciate being
made to feel like an ignorant schoolboy. But of course, it had been like this
from his very first meeting with Fudge on his very first evening as Prime
Minister. He remembered it as though it were yesterday and knew it would
haunt him until his dying day.
He had been standing alone in this very office, savoring the triumph that
was his after so many years of dreaming and scheming, when he had heard
a cough behind him, just like tonight, and turned to find that ugly little portrait
 talking to him, announcing that the Minister of Magic was about to
arrive and introduce himself.
Naturally, he had thought that the long campaign and the strain of the
election had caused him to go mad. He had been utterly terrified to find a portrait 
talking to him, though this had been nothing to how he felt when a
self-proclaimed wizard had bounced out of the fireplace and shaken his
hand. He had remained speechless throughout Fudge’s kindly explanation
that there were witches and wizards still living in secret all over the world
and his reassurances that he was not to bother his head about them as the
Ministry of Magic took responsibility for the whole Wizarding community
and prevented the non-magical population from getting wind of them. It
was, said Fudge, a difficult job that encompassed everything from regulations on
 responsible use of broomsticks to keeping the dragon population
under control (the Prime Minister remembered clutching the desk for support at this point). 
Fudge had then patted the shoulder of the still-dumbstruck Prime Minister in a fatherly sort of way.
“Not to worry,” he had said, “it’s odds-on you’ll never see me again. I’ll
only bother you if there’s something really serious going on our end, something that’s 
likely to affect the Muggles — the non-magical population, I
should say. Otherwise, it’s live and let live. And I must say, you’re taking
it a lot better than your predecessor. He tried to throw me out the window,
thought I was a hoax planned by the opposition.”
At this, the Prime Minister had found his voice at last. “You’re — you’re
not a hoax, then?”
It had been his last, desperate hope.
“No,” said Fudge gently. “No, I’m afraid I’m not. Look.” And he had
turned the Prime Minister’s teacup into a gerbil.
“But,” said the Prime Minister breathlessly, watching his teacup chewing
on the corner of his next speech, “but why — why has nobody told me—?”
“The Minister of Magic only reveals him-or herself to the Muggle Prime
Minister of the day,” said Fudge, poking his wand back inside his jacket.
“We find it the best way to maintain secrecy.”
“But then,” bleated the Prime Minister, “why hasn’t a former Prime
Minister warned me —?”
At this, Fudge had actually laughed.“My dear Prime Minister, are you ever going to tell anybody?”
Still chortling, Fudge had thrown some powder into the fireplace, stepped
into the emerald flames, and vanished with a whooshing sound. The Prime
Minister had stood there, quite motionless, and realized that he would never,
as long as he lived, dare mention this encounter to a living soul, for who in
the wide world would believe him?
The shock had taken a little while to wear off. For a time, he had tried to
convince himself that Fudge had indeed been a hallucination brought on by
lack of sleep during his grueling election campaign. In a vain attempt to rid
himself of all reminders of this uncomfortable encounter, he had given the
gerbil to his delighted niece and instructed his private secretary to take down
the portrait of the ugly little man who had announced Fudge’s arrival. To
the Prime Minister’s dismay, however, the portrait had proved impossible
to remove. When several carpenters, a builder or two, an art historian, and
the Chancellor of the Exchequer had all tried unsuccessfully to prise it from
the wall, the Prime Minister had abandoned the attempt and simply resolved
to hope that the thing remained motionless and silent for the rest of his term
in office. Occasionally he could have sworn he saw out of the corner of his
eye the occupant of the painting yawning, or else scratching his nose; even,
once or twice, simply walking out of his frame and leaving nothing but a
stretch of muddy-brown canvas behind. However, he had trained himself
not to look at the picture very much, and always to tell himself firmly that
his eyes were playing tricks on him when anything like this happened.
Then, three years ago, on a night very like tonight, the Prime Minister
had been alone in his office when the portrait had once again announced the
imminent arrival of Fudge, who had burst out of the fireplace, sopping wet
and in a state of considerable panic. Before the Prime Minister could ask
why he was dripping all over the Axminster, Fudge had started ranting about
a prison the Prime Minister had never heard of, a man named “Serious”
Black, something that sounded like “Hogwarts,” and a boy called Harry
Potter, none of which made the remotest sense to the Prime Minister.“... I’ve just 
come from Azkaban,” Fudge had panted, tipping a large
amount of water out of the rim of his bowler hat into his pocket. “Middle of
the North Sea, you know, nasty flight... the dementors are in uproar” — he
shuddered — “they’ve never had a breakout before. Anyway, I had to come
to you, Prime Minister. Black’s a known Muggle killer and may be planning
to rejoin You-Know-Who But of course, you don’t even know who YouKnow-Who is!” He
 had gazed hopelessly at the Prime Minister for a
moment, then said, “Well, sit down, sit down, I’d better fill you in Have a
whiskey...”
The Prime Minister rather resented being told to sit down in his own
office, let alone offered his own whiskey, but he sat nevertheless. Fudge
pulled out his wand, conjured two large glasses full of amber liquid out of
thin air, pushed one of them into the Prime Minister’s hand, and drew up a
chair.
Fudge had talked for more than an hour. At one point, he had refused to
say a certain name aloud and wrote it instead on a piece of parchment, which
he had thrust into the Prime Minister’s whiskey-free hand. When at last
Fudge had stood up to leave, the Prime Minister had stood up too.
“So you think that...” He had squinted down at the name in his left hand.
“Lord Vol —”
“He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named!” snarled Fudge.
“I’m sorry... You think that He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named is still alive,
then?”
“Well, Dumbledore says he is,” said Fudge, as he had fastened his pinstriped cloak
 under his chin, “but we’ve never found him. If you ask me,
he’s not dangerous unless he’s got support, so it’s Black we ought to be
worrying about. You’ll put out that warning, then? Excellent. Well, I hope
we don’t see each other again, Prime Minister! Good night.”
But they had seen each other again. Less than a year later a harassedlooking Fudge 
had appeared out of thin air in the cabinet room to inform
the Prime Minister that there had been a spot of bother at the Kwidditch (orthat
 was what it had sounded like) World Cup and that several Muggles had
been “involved,” but that the Prime Minister was not to worry, the fact that
You-Know-Who’s Mark had been seen again meant nothing; Fudge was
sure it was an isolated incident, and the Muggle Liaison Office was dealing
with all memory modifications as they spoke.
“Oh, and I almost forgot,” Fudge had added. “We’re importing three foreign dragons
 and a sphinx for the Triwizard Tournament, quite routine, but
the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures tells
me that it’s down in the rule book that we have to notify you if we’re
bringing highly dangerous creatures into the country.”
“I — what — dragons?” spluttered the Prime Minister.
“Yes, three,” said Fudge. “And a sphinx. Well, good day to you.”
The Prime Minister had hoped beyond hope that dragons and sphinxes
would be the worst of it, but no. Less than two years later, Fudge had erupted
out of the fire yet again, this time with the news that there had been a mass
breakout from Azkaban.
“A mass breakout?” repeated the Prime Minister hoarsely.
“No need to worry, no need to worry!” shouted Fudge, already with one
foot in the flames. “We’ll have them rounded up in no time — just thought
you ought to know!”
And before the Prime Minister could shout, “Now, wait just one moment!” Fudge had 
vanished in a shower of green sparks.
Whatever the press and the opposition might say, the Prime Minister was
not a foolish man. It had not escaped his notice that, despite Fudge’s assurances at
 their first meeting, they were now seeing rather a lot of each other,
nor that Fudge was becoming more flustered with each visit. Little though
he liked to think about the Minister of Magic (or, as he always called Fudge
in his head, the Other Minister), the Prime Minister could not help but fear
that the next time Fudge appeared it would be with graver news still. The
sight, therefore, of Fudge stepping out of the fire once more, looking disheveled and
 fretful and sternly surprised that the Prime Minister did not know exactly why he was
  there, was about the worst thing that had happened in
the course of this extremely gloomy week.
“How should I know what’s going on in the — er — Wizarding community?” snapped the Prime 
Minister now. “I have a country to run and quite
enough concerns at the moment without —”
“We have the same concerns,” Fudge interrupted. “The Brockdale Bridge
didn’t wear out. That wasn’t really a hurricane. Those murders were not the
work of Muggles. And Herbert Chorley’s family would be safer without
him. We are currently making arrangements to have him transferred to St.
Mungo’s Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries. The move should be
effected tonight.”
“What do you... I’m afraid I... What?” blustered the Prime Minister.
Fudge took a great, deep breath and said, “Prime Minister, I am very sorry
to have to tell you that he’s back. He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named is back.”
“Back? When you say ‘back’... he’s alive? I mean —”
The Prime Minister groped in his memory for the details of that horrible
conversation of three years previously, when Fudge had told him about the
wizard who was feared above all others, the wizard who had committed a
thousand terrible crimes before his mysterious disappearance fifteen years
earlier.
“Yes, alive,” said Fudge. “That is — I don’t know — is a man alive if he
can’t be killed? I don’t really understand it, and Dumbledore won’t explain
properly — but anyway, he’s certainly got a body and is walking and talking
and killing, so I suppose, for the purposes of our discussion, yes, he’s alive.”
The Prime Minister did not know what to say to this, but a persistent habit
of wishing to appear well-informed on any subject that came up made him
cast around for any details he could remember of their previous conversations.
“Is Serious Black with — er — He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named?”
“Black? Black?” said Fudge distractedly, turning his bowler rapidly in
his fingers. “Sirius Black, you mean? Merlin’s beard, no. Black’s dead. Turns out
 we were — er — mistaken about Black. He was innocent after
all. And he wasn’t in league with He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named either. I
mean,” he added defensively, spinning the bowler hat still faster, “all the
evidence pointed — we had more than fifty eyewitnesses — but anyway, as
I say, he’s dead. Murdered, as a matter of fact. On Ministry of Magic premises.
 There’s going to be an inquiry, actually “
To his great surprise, the Prime Minister felt a fleeting stab of pity for
Fudge at this point. It was, however, eclipsed almost immediately by a glow
of smugness at the thought that, deficient though he himself might be in the
area of materializing out of fireplaces, there had never been a murder in any
of the government departments under his charge... Not yet, anyway...
While the Prime Minister surreptitiously touched the wood of his desk,
Fudge continued, “But Black’s by-the-by now. The point is, we’re at war,
Prime Minister, and steps must be taken.”
“At war?” repeated the Prime Minister nervously. “Surely that’s a little
bit of an overstatement?”
“He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named has now been joined by those of his followers who broke 
out of Azkaban in January,” said Fudge, speaking more
and more rapidly and twirling his bowler so fast that it was a lime-green
blur. “Since they have moved into the open, they have been wreaking havoc.
The Brockdale Bridge — he did it, Prime Minister, he threatened a mass
Muggle killing unless I stood aside for him and —”
“Good grief, so it’s your fault those people were killed and I’m having to
answer questions about rusted rigging and corroded expansion joints and I
don’t know what else!” said the Prime Minister furiously.
“My fault!” said Fudge, coloring up. “Are you saying you would have
caved in to blackmail like that?”
“Maybe not,” said the Prime Minister, standing up and striding about the
room, “but I would have put all my efforts into catching the blackmailer before
 he committed any such atrocity!”
“Do you really think I wasn’t already making every effort?” demandedFudge heatedly.
 “Every Auror in the Ministry was — and is — trying to
find him and round up his followers, but we happen to be talking about one
of the most powerful wizards of all time, a wizard who has eluded capture
for almost three decades!”
